README.md, before:

# [Software Sauna](https://www.softwaresauna.com/) Code Challenge

## Instructions

- Have python3 installed
- File run.py contains example maps. To test your own, add new ones, or modify current ones. The map is passed to the program via the constructor
- Run the program using ``` python run.py ```
- Run test using ``` python -m pytest test_PathTraversal.py ```


## Task

Follow a path of characters & collect letters:

- Start at the character `@`
- Follow the path
- Collect letters
- Stop when you reach the character `x`

## Assignment

Write a piece of code that takes a map of characters as an input and outputs the collected letters and the list of characters of the travelled path.

Input:

- a map (2-dimensional array) of characters in a data format of your choice (can even be hard-coded as a global constant)

Output:

- Collected letters
- Path as characters

## What we are looking for in the solution

- readable code
  - small methods/functions/classes
  - good naming
  - minimise code duplication
  - separation of logic and scaffolding (e.g. walking around is separated from loading the map)
- automated tests
  - high-level tests (i.e. acceptance tests) which test that the program gives correct output for a given input, according to examples specified below
  - unit tests which test small bits of logic separated from the rest of the program, e.g. advancing the current location based on the current direction

### About testing

At Software Sauna automated tests are a first-class citizen. This is why we encourage you to try writing some tests, even if you're not accustomed to doing so. An easy win is to start with the example maps provided.

## Specifications

### Valid maps

#### A basic example

```
  @---A---+
          |
  x-B-+   C
      |   |
      +---+
```

Expected result: 
- Letters ```ACB```
- Path as characters ```@---A---+|C|+---+|+-B-x```

#### Go straight through intersections

```
  @
  | +-C--+
  A |    |
  +---B--+
    |      x
    |      |
    +---D--+
```

Expected result: 
- Letters ```ABCD```
- Path as characters ```@|A+---B--+|+--C-+|-||+---D--+|x```

#### Letters may be found on turns

```
  @---A---+
          |
  x-B-+   |
      |   |
      +---C
```

Expected result: 
- Letters ```ACB```
- Path as characters ```@---A---+|||C---+|+-B-x```

#### Do not collect a letter from the same location twice

```
     +-O-N-+
     |     |
     |   +-I-+
 @-G-O-+ | | |
     | | +-+ E
     +-+     S
             |
             x
```

Expected result: 
- Letters ```GOONIES```
- Path as characters ```@-G-O-+|+-+|O||+-O-N-+|I|+-+|+-I-+|ES|x```

#### Keep direction, even in a compact space

```
 +-L-+
 |  +A-+
@B+ ++ H
 ++    x
```

Expected result: 
- Letters ```BLAH```
- Path as characters ```@B+++B|+-L-+A+++A-+Hx```

#### Ignore stuff after end of path

```
  @-A--+
       |
       +-B--x-C--D
```

Expected result: 
- Letters ```AB```
- Path as characters ```@-A--+|+-B--x```

### Invalid maps

#### Missing start character

```
     -A---+
          |
  x-B-+   C
      |   |
      +---+
```

Expected result: Error

#### Missing end character

```
   @--A---+
          |
    B-+   C
      |   |
      +---+
```

Expected result: Error

#### Multiple starts

```
   @--A-@-+
          |
  x-B-+   C
      |   |
      +---+
```

```
   @--A---+
          |
          C
          x
      @-B-+
```

```
   @--A--x

  x-B-+
      |
      @
```

Expected result: Error

#### Fork in path

```
        x-B
          |
   @--A---+
          |
     x+   C
      |   |
      +---+
```

Expected result: Error

#### Broken path

```
   @--A-+
        |
         
        B-x
```

Expected result: Error

#### Multiple starting paths

```
  x-B-@-A-x
```

Expected result: Error

#### Fake turn

```
  @-A-+-B-x
```

Expected result: Error


## Notes

- the only valid characters are all uppercase letters (`A`-`Z`) and other characters appearing in the example maps; anything else found must result in an error
- turns can be letters or `+`
- input examples are jagged matrices - rows (lines) don't contain the same number of elements (characters): this is a valid form of input so keep that in mind

Commit message:

Updating readme file to add instructions for requirements

README.md, after:

# [Software Sauna](https://www.softwaresauna.com/) Code Challenge

## Instructions

- Have python3 installed
- File run.py contains example maps. To test your own, add new ones, or modify current ones. The map is passed to the program via the constructor
- Run the program using ``` python run.py ```
- To run test install pytest from pip ``` pip install -r requirements.txt ```
- Run test using ``` python -m pytest test_PathTraversal.py ```


## Task

Follow a path of characters & collect letters:

- Start at the character `@`
- Follow the path
- Collect letters
- Stop when you reach the character `x`

## Assignment

Write a piece of code that takes a map of characters as an input and outputs the collected letters and the list of characters of the travelled path.

Input:

- a map (2-dimensional array) of characters in a data format of your choice (can even be hard-coded as a global constant)

Output:

- Collected letters
- Path as characters

## What we are looking for in the solution

- readable code
  - small methods/functions/classes
  - good naming
  - minimise code duplication
  - separation of logic and scaffolding (e.g. walking around is separated from loading the map)
- automated tests
  - high-level tests (i.e. acceptance tests) which test that the program gives correct output for a given input, according to examples specified below
  - unit tests which test small bits of logic separated from the rest of the program, e.g. advancing the current location based on the current direction

### About testing

At Software Sauna automated tests are a first-class citizen. This is why we encourage you to try writing some tests, even if you're not accustomed to doing so. An easy win is to start with the example maps provided.

## Specifications

### Valid maps

#### A basic example

```
  @---A---+
          |
  x-B-+   C
      |   |
      +---+
```

Expected result: 
- Letters ```ACB```
- Path as characters ```@---A---+|C|+---+|+-B-x```

#### Go straight through intersections

```
  @
  | +-C--+
  A |    |
  +---B--+
    |      x
    |      |
    +---D--+
```

Expected result: 
- Letters ```ABCD```
- Path as characters ```@|A+---B--+|+--C-+|-||+---D--+|x```

#### Letters may be found on turns

```
  @---A---+
          |
  x-B-+   |
      |   |
      +---C
```

Expected result: 
- Letters ```ACB```
- Path as characters ```@---A---+|||C---+|+-B-x```

#### Do not collect a letter from the same location twice

```
     +-O-N-+
     |     |
     |   +-I-+
 @-G-O-+ | | |
     | | +-+ E
     +-+     S
             |
             x
```

Expected result: 
- Letters ```GOONIES```
- Path as characters ```@-G-O-+|+-+|O||+-O-N-+|I|+-+|+-I-+|ES|x```

#### Keep direction, even in a compact space

```
 +-L-+
 |  +A-+
@B+ ++ H
 ++    x
```

Expected result: 
- Letters ```BLAH```
- Path as characters ```@B+++B|+-L-+A+++A-+Hx```

#### Ignore stuff after end of path

```
  @-A--+
       |
       +-B--x-C--D
```

Expected result: 
- Letters ```AB```
- Path as characters ```@-A--+|+-B--x```

### Invalid maps

#### Missing start character

```
     -A---+
          |
  x-B-+   C
      |   |
      +---+
```

Expected result: Error

#### Missing end character

```
   @--A---+
          |
    B-+   C
      |   |
      +---+
```

Expected result: Error

#### Multiple starts

```
   @--A-@-+
          |
  x-B-+   C
      |   |
      +---+
```

```
   @--A---+
          |
          C
          x
      @-B-+
```

```
   @--A--x

  x-B-+
      |
      @
```

Expected result: Error

#### Fork in path

```
        x-B
          |
   @--A---+
          |
     x+   C
      |   |
      +---+
```

Expected result: Error

#### Broken path

```
   @--A-+
        |
         
        B-x
```

Expected result: Error

#### Multiple starting paths

```
  x-B-@-A-x
```

Expected result: Error

#### Fake turn

```
  @-A-+-B-x
```

Expected result: Error


## Notes

- the only valid characters are all uppercase letters (`A`-`Z`) and other characters appearing in the example maps; anything else found must result in an error
- turns can be letters or `+`
- input examples are jagged matrices - rows (lines) don't contain the same number of elements (characters): this is a valid form of input so keep that in mind
